Update to Stylelint 15 (#32)
alphagov/stylelint-config-gds: CHANGELOG.md

  useful summary for people upgrading their application, not a replication
  of the commit log.

## 1.0.0

This release upgrades to Stylelint 15 and now includes:

* Checks for media query syntax, rules and values
* Checks for number precision inside CSS functions
* Fixes for duplicate rules with intentionally different units

> Read about breaking changes in the Stylelint [**Migrating to v15.0.0**](https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint/blob/main/docs/migration-guide/to-15.md#breaking-changes) guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Read about breaking changes in the Stylelint [**Migrating to v15.0.0**](https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint/blob/main/docs/migration-guide/to-15.md#breaking-changes) guide.

This new version also adds [a rule which checks that properties are used with correct type of values](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/rules/declaration-property-value-no-unknown/#optional-secondary-options). To help us assess its impact on your projects before adding it to this shared configuration, we encourage you to try it out on your projects and [report any extra configuration you needed on this issue](https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/issues/42).
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks @romaricpascal

It deserved its own section ([see changes](https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/compare/9baa94b3260c1f901a21737ec5d491f14a2bacba..b022e42eb460db4d1d6330f8c4436673b1e28f53)) and I've added some more info to the issue:

* https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/issues/42

  useful summary for people upgrading their application, not a replication
  of the commit log.

## 1.0.0

This release upgrades to Stylelint 15 and now includes:

* Checks for media query syntax, rules and values
* Checks for number precision inside CSS functions
* Fixes for duplicate rules with intentionally different units

Read about breaking changes in the Stylelint [**Migrating to v15.0.0**](https://github.com/stylelint/stylelint/blob/main/docs/migration-guide/to-15.md#breaking-changes) guide.

> ### Support for Internet Explorer 8, 9 and 10
> 
> Support for IE8–10 has not been a requirement for services since June 2018, so we removed the rule [`selector-pseudo-element-colon-notation`](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/rules/selector-pseudo-element-colon-notation/) preventing double-colon `::before` and `::after` pseudo element notation.
> 
> This change was made in [pull request #36: Remove `selector-pseudo-element-colon-notation`](https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/pull/36).

Author: ```suggestion
### Removal of rule enforcing single colon for pseudo selectors

We removed the rule [`selector-pseudo-element-colon-notation`](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/rules/selector-pseudo-element-colon-notation/) preventing double-colon `::before` and `::after` pseudo element notation as this was needed for IE8-10 support and supporting these browsers has not been a requirement for services since June 2018.

This change was made in [pull request #36: Remove `selector-pseudo-element-colon-notation`](https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/pull/36). If you wish to keep support for these old browsers you can [configure your Stylelint](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/configure/) to re-enable this rule.
```

I think by saying support for IE8-10 in the title, the change sounds a lot more drastic than it is, so think just flagging the single rule is a bit clearer.

Reviewer 2: Mind taking a look at https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/pull/44/commits/c5d793e22aff0568f20b821ca401f9104f225993 over in #44? Thanks @kevindew

Gone for something very similar but included the single-colon `:before` and `:after` examples now

### Checking for invalid property/value pairs

Stylelint 15 adds an optional new rule [`declaration-property-value-no-unknown`](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/rules/declaration-property-value-no-unknown) to check for invalid property/value combinations such as:

```css
.govuk-link--example {
  top: red;
}
```

> Do try it on your projects before we enable it in future, but [report any problems on this issue](https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/issues/42) to help us assess its impact.

Author: Since this isn't actually part of the 1.0.0 changes I'd consider this information that is superfluous for the changelog and we should remove it - it risks detracting from the more significant bits.

I think if we want to try out that rule and get feedback we should do a pre-release instead?

Reviewer 2: Thanks @kevindew yeah it was a [suggestion for feedback](https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/pull/32#discussion_r1266837855)

Happy to remove it in a future pre-release instead

### Deprecated stylistic rules

As mentioned in the [`stylelint-config-gds@0.3.0` release notes](#030) below, this release [deprecates all stylistic rules](https://stylelint.io/migration-guide/to-15/#deprecated-stylistic-rules). We no longer include rules that would format your styles and recommend you use [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) for formatting instead.

>When we created these rules, pretty printers (like Prettier) didn't exist. They now offer a better way to consistently format code, especially whitespace. Linters and pretty printers are complementary tools that work together to help you write consistent and error-free code.

> If this is not possible, you can configure the [`stylelint-stylistic`](https://github.com/elirasza/stylelint-stylistic) or [`stylelint-codeguide`](https://github.com/firefoxic/stylelint-codeguide) plugins to restore the [deprecated rules](https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/pull/32/commits/0bab4e7596d642c6fa65bc133e24968a4ff74671) instead.

Author: I think this note needs to be more prominent and more significant, by labelling this as "Deprecated stylistic rules" it doesn't sound like they're gone but they have and it's a very impactful for users of this tooling.

I'd suggest we up the prominence of this to make this the top level item in the changelog, with something like:

> ## Breaking change: Removal of stylistic rules
> 
> This release no longer has stylistic rules (such as tabs/spaces, indentation, etc) as these have been removed from Stylelint common configurations as part of their [deprecation in Stylelint 15]((https://stylelint.io/migration-guide/to-15/#deprecated-stylistic-rules)).
> 
> As per Stylelint's own documentation, we recommend that projects adopt [Prettier](https://prettier.io/) for formatting instead.
> 
> If this is not possible for your project, you can [configure](https://stylelint.io/user-guide/configure/) your projects' stylelint configuration to use the [`stylelint-stylistic`](https://github.com/elirasza/stylelint-stylistic) or [`stylelint-codeguide`](https://github.com/firefoxic/stylelint-codeguide) plugins to restore the [deprecated rules](https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/commit/c23cf01d5a2c60208649b66665809801f9c3a915) instead.
> 

(note I've updated the link to the commit because the previous one broke on a rebase. If we rebase again that one will still work but be detached so we should be careful to try avoid further rebasing without also updating this)

Reviewer 2: Good point regarding the rebase, thanks @kevindew

I'll split the rules removal out into a separate PR so we don't lose it, good for project history

Agree on the prominence thing, I'll do another update shortly. Appreciate it

Reviewer 2: How's this? I've updated the description and moved the rule changes to another PR

* https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/pull/44

We can then link to the PR in the https://github.com/alphagov/stylelint-config-gds/pull/44#pullrequestreview-1539193493 CHANGELOG entry
